Sphere Values in Diamond Marks			
Gemstone	Chip	Mark	Broam
Diamond	0.2	1	4
Garnet, heliodor, topaz	1	5	20
Ruby, smokestone, zircon	2	10	40
Amethyst, sapphire	5	25	100
Emerald	10	50	200

Starting Kits
During step 6 of character creation, you choose one 
of the following sets of equipment. Each starting kit 
grants items such as spheres (roll the dice indicated to 
determine how many marks you start with), weapons or 
armor (see the Weapons table and Armor table later in 
this chapter), other equipment (see the Equipment table 
later in this chapter), and more.
Academic Kit
Weapons: One knife, sling, or staff
Armor: Uniform
Equipment: Backpack with common clothing, 
an ink pen, a bottle of ink, 10 sheets of paper, 
3 empty vials, a block of wax, a reference book on 
a topic of your choice (approved by the GM), and 
1 dose of weak poison
Spheres: A pouch containing 3d12 marks
Additional Expertise: You gain the Literature 
expertise. If you already have this expertise, you 
instead gain one cultural or utility expertise of your 
choice. This expertise doesn’t count against your 
expertises chosen at character creation.
Artisan Kit
Weapons: One hammer or light weapon (your choice)
Armor: Leather armor
Equipment: Chest with common clothing, surgical 
supplies, 5 doses of weak antiseptic, an ink pen, 
a bottle of ink, 5 sheets of parchment, 5 candles, 
a flint and steel, 3 empty glass bottles, a tuning fork, 
a musical instrument of your choice, and a scale
Spheres: A pouch containing 4d8 marks
Military Kit
Weapons: Two non-special weapons
Armor: Uniform and chain armor
Equipment: Backpack with common clothing, 
a waterskin, a flint and steel, a whetstone, a blanket, 
and 10 days of food rations
Spheres: A pouch containing 2d6 marks
Courtier Kit
Prisoner Kit
Weapons, Armor, and Spheres: None
Equipment: Manacles, ragged clothing
Connection: You’ve attracted a Radiant spren, and 
through your trials, you’ve begun to connect with 
them. Speak with your GM and choose a spren 
type appropriate for your character, then record 
their information on the back of your character 
sheet in “Connections.” If you later choose the 
key talent from this spren’s corresponding Radiant 
path, immediately check two boxes for that talent’s 
“Speak the First Ideal” goal.
Underworld Kit
Weapons: Two light weapons
Armor: Leather armor
Equipment: Backpack with common clothing, alcohol 
(bottle of Horneater white), a crowbar, a lockpick, 
50 feet of rope, a flint and steel, an oil lantern, a flask 
of oil, and 5 days of street food
Spheres: A pouch containing 1d20 marks
Weapons
Since the arrival of the Everstorm, it’s dangerous to 
travel unarmed, and even the most peaceful characters 
often take up weapons for self-defense.
This section outlines the most common weapons 
found on Roshar. The Weapons table includes the 
following columns:
Weapons: One sidesword, greatsword, longsword, 
or longbow
Armor: None
Equipment: Alcohol (bottle of violet wine), 
f
ine clothing
Spheres: A pouch containing 4d20 marks
Connection: You’re supported by a patron of your 
noble house (see the “Patrons” section of chapter 8). 
This affords you accommodations and a certain 
standard of living.
Type. The general type of weapon—but feel free to 
creatively describe your own, as long as it uses the 
same statistics.
Skill. The skill you test when attacking with this weapon.
Damage. How much damage the weapon deals when it 
hits or grazes.
Range. How far away the weapon can attack (see the 
upcoming “Weapon Range” section).
Traits. Special rules that apply to that weapon (see the 
upcoming “Weapon Traits” section).
Expert Traits. Special rules that apply only if you have 
an expertise in that weapon. Some weapons remove 
an undesirable trait if you have expertise, rather than 
adding a desirable trait; for example, if you have an 
expertise in Longswords, your longsword loses its 
Two-Handed trait so you can wield it with one hand.
Weight. The weapon’s weight.
Price. The weapon’s standard price.
See the “Attacking” section of chapter 10 for the 
full rules about attacking using these weapons

Wielding Weapons
Each weapon requires one hand to wield unless other
wise specified in its traits. While wielding a weapon, 
you can use it to attack or use other abilities. Rules that 
apply to “your weapon” only apply if you’re wielding 
that weapon.
If you aren’t wielding a weapon (or holding an object) 
in a hand, you have that hand free for other abilities 
that require it. If both of your hands are full but an 
ability doesn’t state you need a hand free, it’s up to the 
GM to decide whether you could reasonably use that 
ability in the narrative.
Drawing Weapons
You can use the Interact action to draw a weapon in 
your possession and grasp it in your hand. After you do, 
you’re wielding that weapon and can use it for attacks 
and other effects.
You can use the Drop free action to release a weapon 
you’re holding (for example, right before you Interact 
to draw a different weapon). When a scene begins and 
you’re not Surprised, it’s assumed you can instinctively 
draw your weapons before the first round (without using 
the Interact action). If you’re Surprised when a scene 
begins, you can’t instinctively draw your weapons.
Offhand Weapons
While wielding more than one weapon, you must choose 
which one is in your main hand. Attacks with that 
weapon are made as usual.
When you wield a weapon that’s not in your main 
hand, it’s in your offhand. Before you use the Strike 
action using a weapon in your offhand, you must spend 
2 focus. (Attacks other than the Strike action don’t 
require spending that focus.)
mosT rosharan 
Some characters might wield their weapons using 
methods other than hands. You can do this if you’re only 
wielding weapons that another character could with two 
hands. When you do, pick which weapon is considered 
your “main hand” and “offhand” (regardless of how 
you hold them), and otherwise follow the weapon rules. 
Unless your GM decides otherwise, you can’t wield more 
than two weapons (or one Two-Handed weapon) at a 
time, regardless of whether you use your hands to do so.
Ammunition
If your weapon has the Loaded or Ranged trait, you 
don’t need to purchase its ammunition or track it on 
your character sheet (unless the weapon uses special 
ammunition). However, the Loaded trait does limit 
how many shots you can make with a weapon before 
reloading. It’s assumed you can always obtain or 
improvise standard ammunition for your weapons, 
unless the GM decides you’re in an unusual situation 
where ammunition is unavailable.

Weapon Range
Weapons can only attack targets within a certain range. 
Each weapon is classified as either a melee weapon 
or a ranged weapon. See “Targeting and Range” in 
chapter 10 for more information on range and reach.
Melee Weapons
You can use a melee weapon that you’re wielding 
to attack a target within your reach (see “Reach” in 
chapter 10).
When wielded, some melee weapons increase your 
reach for attacks made with that weapon. On the 
Weapons table, if a melee weapon’s range lists a number 
in brackets, increase your reach by that many feet. For 
example, if you usually have a 5-foot reach, a Melee [+5] 
weapon extends your reach to 10 feet.
Ranged Weapons
You can fire ammunition from a ranged weapon 
that you’re wielding, attacking a target either within 
or beyond your reach. The weapon’s range lists two 
numbers in brackets, such as Ranged [80/320]; the first 
number is the weapon’s short range in feet, and the 
second is the weapon’s long range in feet. As described 
in “Targeting and Range” in chapter 10, ranged attacks 
outside short range gain a disadvantage.
Additionally, as described in “Attacking” in chapter 
10, you gain a disadvantage on ranged attacks while 
within an enemy’s reach. If you attack a target within 
5 feet of your ally, raise the stakes; a Complication risks 
grazing your ally.
Weapon Traits
These rules apply to any weapon with that trait listed 
in its entry on the Weapons table.
Cumbersome [X]. To wield this weapon easily, your 
Strength score must be equal to or greater than the 
number indicated in brackets. If your Strength is 
lower than that number, you gain a disadvantage on 
all attacks using this weapon and are Slowed while 
wielding it.
Dangerous. The GM can spend C from an attack with 
this weapon to cause you to also accidentally graze an 
ally within the weapon’s reach or range. This deals the 
usual damage for a graze.
Deadly. When you hit a target with this weapon, you 
can spend  to cause the target to immediately suffer 
an injury.
Defensive. While wielding this weapon, you can use the 
Brace action without cover nearby.
Discreet. This weapon is less obtrusive than others, 
and thus less likely to be confiscated in secure settings. 
In non-combat scenes, you gain an advantage on 
any test you make to disguise this weapon, to hide 
it on your person, or to convince others not to take 
it from you.
Fragile. When you attack with this weapon, the GM 
can spend C to cause it to break after the attack 
is resolved.
Indirect. This ranged weapon can arc shots over cover 
and obscuring terrain. If a target isn’t in your line of 
effect but you can sense them, you can still attack them 
with this weapon if there’s a reasonably open path for 
your projectile to indirectly arc to them. Your target 
can’t benefit from the Brace action against attacks 
made with this weapon.
Loaded [X]. This weapon stores ammunition equal to 
the number indicated in brackets. To make a ranged 
attack with this weapon, you must spend 1 stored 
ammunition. As , you can reload this weapon to full 
ammunition. The GM can spend C from an attack 
with this weapon to reduce your stored ammunition; 
after they do, the weapon only has only one shot 
remaining.
Momentum. When you attack using this weapon, if you 
already moved at least 10 feet in a straight line toward 
your target on this turn, you gain an advantage on 
the attack.
Offhand. While wielding this weapon in your offhand, 
it only costs you 1 focus (instead of 2) to Strike with it.
Pierce. This weapon’s damage can’t be reduced by the 
target’s deflect value.
Quickdraw. You can use the Interact action as  to draw 
this weapon.
Thrown [X/Y]. You can throw this weapon at a target, 
making a ranged attack when you do (see “Ranged 
Attacks” in chapter 10). The two numbers in brackets 
express the weapon’s short and long range; as with 
ranged weapons, you gain a disadvantage when 
attacking a target outside short range. Once the 
weapon is thrown, it is lost until you recover it from 
your target.
Two-Handed. You must wield this weapon in two 
hands, not just one. When you attack with it, it uses 
both hands.
Unique. This weapon has unique rules. These are 
detailed either in the weapon description or 
immediately following the word “Unique” in the 
Weapons table (for example, “Unique: loses Two
Handed trait”).

Melee Weapons
You can use a melee weapon that you’re wielding 
to attack a target within your reach (see “Reach” in 
chapter 10).
When wielded, some melee weapons increase your 
reach for attacks made with that weapon. On the 
Weapons table, if a melee weapon’s range lists a number 
in brackets, increase your reach by that many feet. For 
example, if you usually have a 5-foot reach, a Melee [+5] 
weapon extends your reach to 10 feet.

Ranged Weapons
You can fire ammunition from a ranged weapon 
that you’re wielding, attacking a target either within 
or beyond your reach. The weapon’s range lists two 
numbers in brackets, such as Ranged [80/320]; the first 
number is the weapon’s short range in feet, and the 
second is the weapon’s long range in feet. As described 
in “Targeting and Range” in chapter 10, ranged attacks 
outside short range gain a disadvantage.
Additionally, as described in “Attacking” in chapter 
10, you gain a disadvantage on ranged attacks while 
within an enemy’s reach. If you attack a target within 
5 feet of your ally, raise the stakes; a Complication risks 
grazing your ally.

Weapons: Light Weaponry						
Type	Damage	Range	Traits	Expert Traits	Weight	Price
Javelin	1d6 keen	Melee	Thrown[30/120]	Inderect	2lb.	20mk
Knife	1d4 keen	Melee	Discreet	Offhand, Thrown(20/60)	1lb.	8mk
Mace	1d6 impact	Melee		Momentum	3lb.	20mk
Rapier	1d6 keen	Melee	Quickdraw	Defensive	2lb.	100mk
Shortspear	1d8 keen	Melee	Two-Handed	Unique: loses Two-Handed trait	3lb.	10mk
Sidesword	1d6 keen	Melee	Quickdraw	Offhand	2lb.	40mk
Staff	1d6 impact	Melee	Discreet, Two-Handed	Defensive	4lb.	1mk
Shortbow	1d6 keen	Ranged[80/320]	Two-Handed	Quickdraw	2lb.	80mk
Sling	1d4 impact	Ranged[30/120]	Discreet	Indirect	1lb.	2mk

Heavy Weaponry						
Type	Damage	Range	Traits	Expert Traits	Weight	Price
Axe	1d6 keen	Melee	Thrown[20,60]	Offhand	2lb.	20mk
Greatsword	1d10 keen	Melee	Two-Handed	Deadly	7lb.	200mk
Hammer	1d10 impact	Melee	Two-Handed	Momentum	8lb.	40mk
Longspear	1d8 keen	Melee[+5]	Two-Handed	Defensive	9lb.	15mk
Longsword	1d8 keen	Melee	Quickdraw, Two-Handed	Unique: loses Two-handed Trait	3lb.	60mk
Poleaxe	1d10 keen	Melee	Two-Handed	Unique: Melee[+5]	5lb.	40mk
Shield	1d4 impact	Melee	Defensive	Offhand	2lb.	10mk
Crossbow	1d8 keen	Ranged[100/400]	Loaded[1], Two-Handed	Deadly	7lb.	200mk
Longbow	1d6 keen	Ranged[150/600]	Two-Handed	Indirect	3lb.	100mk



Weapons: Special Weapons							
Type	Skill	Damage	Range	Traits	Expert Traits	Weight	Price
Improvised Weapon	Same as similar weapon	Same as similar weapon	Melee	Fragile	Unique		
Unarmed Attack	Athletics	Unique	Melee	Unique	Monentum, Offhand	Weightless	
Half-Shard	Heavy Weaponry	2d4 impact	Melee	Defensive, Two-Handed, Unique	Momentum	10lb.	2,000mk
Shardblade	Heavy Weaponry	2d8 Spirit	Melee	Dangerous, Deadly, Unique	Unique: loses Dangerous Trait	4lb	Reward Only
Shardblade(Radiant)	*	2d* Spirit	Melee	Deadly, Unique		Weightless	Talent Only
Warhammer	Heavy Weaponry	2d10 impact	Melee	Cumbersom[5], Two-Handed	Unique	150lb.	400mk
Grandbow	Heavy Weaponry	2d6 keen	Ranged[200/800]	Cumbersom[5], Two-Handed	Pierce	20lb.	1000mk

Weapon Traits
These rules apply to any weapon with that trait listed 
in its entry on the Weapons table.
Cumbersome [X]. To wield this weapon easily, your 
Strength score must be equal to or greater than the 
number indicated in brackets. If your Strength is 
lower than that number, you gain a disadvantage on 
all attacks using this weapon and are Slowed while 
wielding it.
Dangerous. The GM can spend C from an attack with 
this weapon to cause you to also accidentally graze an 
ally within the weapon’s reach or range. This deals the 
usual damage for a graze.
Deadly. When you hit a target with this weapon, you 
can spend  to cause the target to immediately suffer 
an injury.
Defensive. While wielding this weapon, you can use the 
Brace action without cover nearby.
Discreet. This weapon is less obtrusive than others, 
and thus less likely to be confiscated in secure settings. 
In non-combat scenes, you gain an advantage on 
any test you make to disguise this weapon, to hide 
it on your person, or to convince others not to take 
it from you.
Fragile. When you attack with this weapon, the GM 
can spend C to cause it to break after the attack 
is resolved.
Indirect. This ranged weapon can arc shots over cover 
and obscuring terrain. If a target isn’t in your line of 
effect but you can sense them, you can still attack them 
with this weapon if there’s a reasonably open path for 
your projectile to indirectly arc to them. Your target 
can’t benefit from the Brace action against attacks 
made with this weapon.
Loaded [X]. This weapon stores ammunition equal to 
the number indicated in brackets. To make a ranged 
attack with this weapon, you must spend 1 stored 
ammunition. As , you can reload this weapon to full 
ammunition. The GM can spend C from an attack 
with this weapon to reduce your stored ammunition; 
after they do, the weapon only has only one shot 
remaining.
Momentum. When you attack using this weapon, if you 
already moved at least 10 feet in a straight line toward 
your target on this turn, you gain an advantage on 
the attack.
Offhand. While wielding this weapon in your offhand, 
it only costs you 1 focus (instead of 2) to Strike with it.
Pierce. This weapon’s damage can’t be reduced by the 
target’s deflect value.
Quickdraw. You can use the Interact action as  to draw 
this weapon.
Thrown [X/Y]. You can throw this weapon at a target, 
making a ranged attack when you do (see “Ranged 
Attacks” in chapter 10). The two numbers in brackets 
express the weapon’s short and long range; as with 
ranged weapons, you gain a disadvantage when 
attacking a target outside short range. Once the 
weapon is thrown, it is lost until you recover it from 
your target.
Two-Handed. You must wield this weapon in two 
hands, not just one. When you attack with it, it uses 
both hands.
Unique. This weapon has unique rules. These are 
detailed either in the weapon description or 
immediately following the word “Unique” in the 
Weapons table (for example, “Unique: loses Two
Handed trait”).

Improvised Weapons
In the heat of the moment, you might wish to attack 
with an object that isn’t a traditional weapon (such 
as hitting someone with a pot) or use a weapon in an 
unconventional way (such as swinging a shortbow at 
someone like a staff). If you can pick an object up in one 
or both hands, you can use it as an improvised weapon!
Expertise. Unlike other entries on the Special 
Weapons table, you can choose Improvised Weapons as 
a weapon expertise. If you do, your improvised weapon 
attacks benefit from the expert traits of the weapon most 
similar to it, even if you don’t have expertise in that 
similar weapon.
Using an Improvised Weapon. When you attack 
with an improvised weapon, the GM decides which 
non-special light or heavy weapon it is most similar to. 
Make the attack as though with that weapon, but add 
the Fragile trait (see “Weapon Traits”).

Unarmed Attacks
Punches, kicks, thrown elbows, headbutts, and bites 
are examples of unarmed attacks. You can make an 
unarmed attack using Athletics.
Expertise. Unlike other entries on the Special 
Weapons table, you can choose Unarmed Attacks as 
a weapon expertise.
Unique Traits. Unarmed attacks add the following 
unique traits:
Always Available. Unarmed attacks don’t count as 
weapon attacks, but they’re melee attacks intrinsic to 
each character. You don’t have to be holding a weapon 
to make an unarmed attack, and you can’t be disarmed 
of your unarmed attacks. You can make an unarmed 
attack even if both of your hands are holding weapons 
or other items, but when you do, that attack still counts 
as an attack using a hand of your choice. If you use the 
Strike action to make an unarmed attack, you might 
describe it as a punch, kick, or headbutt—but you 
must still choose which "hand" is making that attack, 
and you can't make another Strike using a weapon 
you're holding in that hand.
Strength Training. When you make an unarmed attack, 
its damage die is based on your Strength score, as 
shown on the Unarmed Damage table.
Unarmed Damage
Strength Unarmed Damage
0-2 1 Impact(no die roll)
3-4 1d4 Impact
5-6 1d8 Impact
7-8 2d6 Impact
9+ 2d10 Impact

Half-Shards
Half-shards are diamond-shaped, two-handed kite 
shields with a special augmenter fabrial on the back, 
allowing them to resist the blows of Shardblades. Like 
normal shields, half-shards are designed primarily for 
defense, but they can also be wielded as weapons.
Unique Traits. Half-shards have the following 
unique traits:
Charges (1 charge). A half-shard reinforces itself using 
Stormlight from its fabrial’s gems. A normal half-shard 
has 1 charge (though some might have more); while 
it has at least 1 charge, it is Invested. Before you take 
damage while wielding a half-shard, you can expend 
a charge (no action required) to increase your deflect 
value by 10 against that attack, then until the attack is 
resolved, your deflect value applies to all damage types. 
(When it fits the story, your GM might decide you 
aren’t protected from some sources of damage, such 
as extreme cold.)
Recharging. Half-shards can be recharged in the usual 
manner (see “Using Items” at the beginning of this 
chapter), either via unencased gems or a Radiant. 
However, half-shard charges require significantly more 
Investiture than most fabrials, requiring 5 Investiture 
or 5 gems (instead of 1) to restore a single charge.
Shardblades and 
Radiant Shardblades
Shardblades are among the most priceless items on 
Roshar. These weapons are five to six feet long, at least 
a handspan wide, gleamingly ornate, and shockingly 
light. They can cut through nearly anything like a hot 
knife through chull lard, and their bonded owner can 
summon them from thin air.
Shardblades are composed of an unknown metal, 
with a gemstone fitted within their hilt or guard. 
Unlike non-Invested weaponry, Shardblades can 
cut cleanly through almost any non-living material—
including non-Invested stone and metal—with the ease 
of slicing through water. In addition, these Blades pass 
through living organisms without the usual mark or 
injury, slicing through soul rather than flesh and bone. 
When the core of a limb is “severed” by a Shardblade, 
everything beyond that cut becomes Blade-dead—
gray and lifeless. If this happens to a character’s spine 
or head, their eyes burn out and they instantly die.

Unique Traits. Shardblades add the following 
unique traits:
Summoning/Dismissing. Once bonded (see “Bonding 
a Shardblade”), a Shardblade takes ten heartbeats to 
summon. When you use the Interact action to draw 
your Shardblade, it doesn’t materialize in your hand 
until the start of your next turn. You can dismiss your 
Shardblade with a mere thought (no action required), 
then it disappears into mist until you need it again.
Spiritual Injury. Shardblades are an Invested weapon 
that can sever a person’s spirit. When a Shardblade 
causes a target to make an injury roll (such as by 
reducing them to 0 health or triggering the weapon’s 
Deadly trait), determine the injury by rolling on the 
Shardblade Injury Duration table without adding the 
target’s deflect value (instead of rolling on the Injury 
Duration table in chapter 9).
Shardblade Injury Duration
Injury Roll Injury
16+ Flesh Wound. The character suffers a temporary injury for the remainder of the day.
1-15 Spiritual Injury. The target suffers a permanent injury. Any severed flesh turns gray and lifeless. Non-Infested healing can't heal this injury.
0 or lower Death. The character dies

Bonding a Shardblade
You can use a Shardblade’s attached gem to bond to 
that blade. This process usually takes about 5 days, 
though you can choose to break this bond with only 
a few moments of concentration. Once you bond to a 
Shardblade, you can summon it anywhere by willing 
it to happen—ten heartbeats later, it coalesces from 
mist into your hand. If your bonded Shardblade leaves 
your hand, it instantly dissipates again unless you will 
it not to.
You can have multiple Shardblades bound at a time, 
but each Shardblade can be bound to only one character 
at a time. You can only bond another character’s Shard
blade if they are dead or willingly broke their bond.
Radiant Shardblades
Thousands of years ago, the people of Roshar lost the 
knowledge of what Shardblades are made from and 
how to create them. However, certain characters—
including ancient beings, higher-Ideal Radiants, and 
people associated with them—know what Shardblades 
truly are: the corpses of Radiant spren, killed when 
their bonded knights forswore their oaths during 
the Recreance.
Radiants of the Third Ideal or higher can wield 
“living” Shardblades, their bonded spren physically 
manifested in the form of a weapon. Such a Blade can 
be summoned whenever its spren is ready (instead 
of requiring ten heartbeats as those of dead-spren 
Shardblades do). Unlike other Shardblades, glyphs and 
symbols usually glow on the blade, though you can cause 
yours to look like a “dead” Blade whenever you wish.
While you wield your Radiant Shardblade, you can 
telepathically communicate with your spren. However, 
while in Blade form, the spren can’t use abilities that 
require them to move independently.
Unique Traits. Radiant Shardblades add the 
following unique traits:
Faster Summoning. When you use the Interact action 
to draw your Radiant Shardblade, it immediately 
materializes in your hand. You can dismiss your 
Radiant Shardblade with a mere thought (no action 
required), and it disappears into mist until you 
need it again.
Malleable Form. You can use  to change the shape 
of your Radiant Shardblade, choosing any non-special 
melee weapon on the Weapons table. Your Blade uses 
that weapon’s skill and gains that weapon’s traits for 
as long as it’s in that shape; if you have an expertise 
in the chosen weapon, it gains those expert traits as 
well. You roll double the normal damage dice for that 
weapon (for example, a Shard longspear rolls 2d8 
damage instead of 1d8), and it deals spirit damage 
instead of that weapon’s normal type.
Radiant Shardblade. Your Radiant Shardblade 
has Faster Summoning instead of the Summoning/
Dismissing trait, and it doesn’t have the Dangerous 
trait of other Shardblades. Otherwise, it follows the 
rules for ordinary Shardblades.

Radiants Wielding Non-Radiant Shardblades
Radiants who try to wield a non-Radiant Shardblade 
hear incessant, agonized screaming. If you have a First 
Ideal key talent, you become Disoriented and gain a 
disadvantage on all tests while you’re touching or holding 
such a Shardblade. At the start of your turn, you can spend 
3 focus to temporarily ignore this effect until the start of 
your next turn.

Warhammers
Rosharan warhammers have hafts as thick as a warrior’s 
wrist and a metal head nearly the size of a warrior’s 
torso. Due to their enormous weight, warhammers 
usually can usually only be wielded by people in 
Shardplate. Consequently, warhammers are commonly 
called Shardhammers, despite being made of mundane 
materials.
Unique Traits. If you have the Warhammer special
ist expertise, add the following special expert trait:
Crushing Weight. When you hit a character of your 
size or smaller with an attack using this weapon, you 
can also push them horizontally up to 10 feet. When 
you do, you can also spend to choose any number 
of other characters of your size or smaller within your 
reach, pushing them the same direction and distance.

Armor					
Type	Deflect Value	Traits	Expert Traits	Weight	Price
Uniform	0	Presentable		5lb.	40mk
Leather	1		Presentable	10lb.	60mk.
Chain	2	Cumbersome[3]	Unique: loses Cumbersome Trait	25lb.	80mk
Breastplate	2	Cumbersome[3]	Presentable	30lb.	120mk
Half Plate	3	Cumbersome[4]	Unique:Cumbersome[3] instead of Cumbersome[4]	40lb.	400mk
Full Plate	4	Cumbersome[5]		55lb.	1600mk
Shardplate	5	Dangerous, Unique	Unique: loses Dangerous Trait	1400lb.	Reward Only
Shardplate(radiant)	5	Unique		Weightless	Talent Only

Armor
With war raging across Roshar, armor is a very 
common sight, though it’s often still frowned on in 
polite society. While wearing armor, you stand out 
in polite society. This might result in standing out 
like a sore thumb, getting turned away from certain 
locations, or gaining a disadvantage on tests made to 
influence civilians in most non-military contexts, such 
as banquets, markets, or churches.
This section outlines the most common types of 
armor found on Roshar. You can only benefit from one 
type of armor at once, and you can’t put on armor or 
take it off while in combat or in situations where it’s 
hard to move. The Armor table includes the follow
ing columns:
Type. The general type of armor—but feel free to 
creatively describe your own, as long as it uses the 
same statistics.
Deflect Value. Reduce all incoming impact, keen, and 
energy damage by the deflect value of the armor you’re 
wearing (see “Deflect” in chapter 3).
Traits. Special rules that apply to that armor (see the 
upcoming “Armor Traits” section).
Expert Traits. Special rules that apply only if you have 
an expertise in that armor. Some armors remove 
an undesirable trait if you have expertise, rather 
than adding a desirable trait; for example, if you 
have an expertise in Chain Armor, your chain loses 
its Cumbersome trait so you can wear it with any 
Strength score.
Weight. The armor’s weight.
Price. The armor’s standard price.

Armor Traits
These rules apply to any armor with that trait listed in 
its entry on the Armor table.
Cumbersome [X]. To wear this armor easily, your 
Strength score must be equal to or greater than the 
number indicated in brackets. If your Strength is lower 
than that number, you’re Slowed while wearing this 
armor and you gain a disadvantage on all tests that 
use your Speed attribute.
Dangerous. The GM can spend C that you gain while 
wearing this armor to cause your uncontrolled motion 
to injure an ally with 5 feet of you, dealing 2d6 
impact damage.
Presentable. This unobtrusive armor is presentable to 
wear in public in a non-military context. You don’t 
suffer undue attention for wearing this armor or gain a 
disadvantage on tests for doing so in conversations.
Unique. This armor has unique rules detailed immed
iately following the word “Unique” in the Armor table 
(for example, “Unique: loses Cumbersome trait”)

Shardplate and 
Radiant Shardplate
Shardplate is just as highly sought-after as Shardblades. 
Each set provides full-body armor that enhances the 
physical capabilities and durability of its wielder, blocks 
strikes from Shardblades, and protects its wearer from 
all but the most powerful Invested abilities.
Shardplate is made from thick interlocking plates 
of an unknown, monumentally heavy metal. On the 
interior of each set’s breastplate, an apparatus of gems 
charges the Plate with Stormlight and allows the use of 
its Invested properties. When the Plate’s wearer closes 
their helmet’s mask, it becomes partially translucent, 
allowing for a much greater range of vision than in 
mundane helmets.
A person wearing infused Shardplate isn’t hampered 
by its weight; instead, it greatly increases their strength 
and agility. Perhaps even more importantly, the 
armor has a remarkable ability to repel the strikes 
of Shardblades.
Despite these qualities, Shardplate can be difficult 
to use effectively. It requires gems infused with Storm 
light to function, and donning or doffing it with any 
speed requires a team of trained professionals. 
Without Stormlight, Plate is little more than dead 
weight, and it can cease functioning when it takes 
significant damage. However, unlike other armor, 
Plate’s damaged pieces can regenerate; given enough 
time and Storm light, you can use the breastplate’s gem 
apparatus to regrow the missing pieces of a set of Plate, 
almost like a living organism.
Transporting Shardplate can also be difficult due 
to its weight, usually requiring a chull-drawn cart 
(described in “Travel” later in this chapter). This 
particularly matters when tracking your carrying 
capacity (see “Strength” in chapter 3).
Unique Traits. Shardplate adds the following 
unique traits:

Charges (4 charges). Shardplate reinforces itself using 
Stormlight from its gems. An average set of Shardplate 
has 4 charges (though special sets might have more). 
Before you take damage while wearing Shardplate, 
you can expend a charge to increase your deflect value 
against that damage by 10. While the armor has at 
least 1 charge, it is Invested. When the armor runs 
out of charges, it no longer functions correctly; until 
recharged, it gains the Cumbersome [6] trait, and it 
loses the Enhanced Attributes and Invested Ability 
Protection traits.

Breakable. Lucky hits against Shardplate can shatter 
plates of the armor, causing Stormlight to leak out. 
After you’re hit by an attack while wearing Shardplate, 
your opponent can spend  from that attack to cause 
your Shardplate to lose 1 charge.
Recharging. Shardplate can be recharged in the usual 
manner (see “Using Items” at the beginning of this 
chapter), either via unencased gems or a Radiant. 
However, Shardplate charges require significantly more 
Investiture than most fabrials, requiring 5 Investiture 
or 5 gems (instead of 1) to restore a single charge.
Enhanced Attributes. While wearing the armor, you 
become Enhanced [+2 Strength] and Enhanced 
[+2 Speed].
Invested Ability Protection. While wearing this armor, 
your Invested ability tests gain a disadvantage, Invested 
ability tests against you gain a disadvantage, and your 
deflect value applies to all damage types. (When it fits 
the story, your GM might decide you aren’t protected 
from some sources of damage, such as extreme cold.)
Radiant Shardplate
Radiants of the Fourth Ideal or higher can wield 
“living” Shardplate, which usually glows with a 
luminescent light. The armor is composed of common 
spren; these spren usually follow the Radiant unseen, 
but they can be called on to manifest into armor.
You can also choose for your Radiant Shardplate 
to look like “dead” Plate, which doesn’t glow.
Unique Traits. Radiant Shardplate has the follow
ing unique traits:

Living Armor. You can use  to summon or dismiss 
any number of your armor pieces on your body (for 
example, to remove your helmet). Dismissing a few 
pieces doesn’t change your armor’s function unless 
you wish it to. Your armor maintains its count of 
charges when dismissed.
Restraining Armor. You can summon the armor 
around a character you can sense within 20 feet of you 
who is willing, unaware of your presence or location, 
or Surprised. When you try to summon it around an 
unwilling character, you must succeed on a Discipline 
test against their Physical defense. While the armor is 
around a character other than you, they gain all the 
benefits of wearing Shardplate, but they also become 
Restrained. Whenever this character takes damage, 
they automatically expend one of the armor’s charges 
to increase their deflect value by 10 against that 
damage. The Restrained condition ends and the armor 
is dismissed when you choose to dismiss it, when it 
drops to 0 charges, or when the character or an ally 

within reach of them succeeds on an Athletics test 
against the wearer’s Physical defense (via the Use a 
Skill action).
Natural Recovery. Radiant Shardplate naturally 
restores its charges over time, though if you wish, you 
can recharge it quickly using the normal rules. After a 
long rest, your Shardplate regains all its charges.
Radiant Shardplate. Your Radiant Shardplate doesn’t 
have the Dangerous trait of other Shardplate, and it 
doesn’t add a disadvantage to your Invested tests. 
It otherwise follows the rules for ordinary Shardplate.

GM Tip: Rewarding Items
Some things on Roshar are so precious and powerful that 
they can’t be purchased: Ryshadium steeds, Shardblades, 
Shardplate, Soulcasters, and the gems required to create 
unique fabrials. Players can only acquire these items 
through rewards (see chapter 8), whether for completing 
a goal or through narrative means.

Equipment
This section presents everyday Rosharan tools and 
resources that are commonly applicable to your 
adventures. The Equipment table lists each item’s 
name, weight, and price, then the text that follows 
describes each item’s benefits.
Some items in this section have variable prices, 
as many variations on that item can be found across 
Roshar. For example, Vorin wines range dramatically 
in value, and some reference books are much rarer than 
others. The GM chooses how much an individual item 
costs within its range, and they might grant tangential 
benefits to the higher-priced varieties. For example, 
spending extra money on a blue wine, rather than a 
red, might lower your DC on a test made to influence 
a connoisseur.
Alcohol. Every culture of Roshar has its own 
intoxicating traditions, such as beers, mudbeers, ciders, 
honu, shiki, juices, and lagers.
In Vorin society, almost all forms of alcohol are 
referred to as “wine” regardless of their ingredients. 
Such wines are known by their distinct colors, which are 
infused into each beverage so they can be distinguished 
at a glance. From least intoxicating to most, the types 
of wine are:

Color
Pink
Orange
Yellow
Auburn
Red
Sapphire
Effect
Noted as being floral and aiding alertness. 
Less intoxicating than milk.
A non-intoxicating wine that tastes of fruit with 
notes of ginger. Most popular with members of the 
clergy.
Offers a bold and deep flavor “without guilt.” 
Minimally intoxicating.
Spicy with an earthy aroma. Brewed with 
fermented fruit.
Flavorful wine with a pleasant burn.
Nutty with notes of honey, made with fermented 
lavis grain.
Blue
Violet
Carries complex notes of berry and lemon.
Potent liquor with an aroma of spiced sandalw

Anesthetic. Usually made from fathom bark or 
winterwort, you can apply a dose of anesthetic ointment 
to an injury after a short or long rest to reduce its 
recovery time by 1d4 days. Each injury can be treated 
with anesthetic only once per day.
Antiseptic (potent). Knobweed milk, fourleaf 
sap, and lister’s oil can all be used to make a strong 
antiseptic. A dose can be applied to a character after 
a short rest to restore 2d6 health.

Personal Items
This chapter provides statistics for common objects 
that interact with the game rules. However, this isn’t a 
comprehensive list of everything that exists on Roshar! 
Feel free to carry other personal items that have meaning 
to your character, add flavor to your actions, or similarly 
deepen the narrative. Just remember that such personal 
items can’t provide you mechanical advantages in the 
game—you can’t suddenly declare you have a perfect 
infused gem in your pocket that didn’t exist before. But 
otherwise, be creative.
For example, you might decide your character has a 
sweet tooth and constantly snacks on sweets. Sweets 
aren’t on the item list, but you can still use it to add 
interesting details to the story. When you’re in a solemn 
audience with royalty, you might describe how you pull a 
sweet from your sock, pop it in your mouth, and crunch it 
loudly—no need to establish where you bought the sweet 
from or how much it cost! Just remember that you can’t 
use these narratively conjured sweets to bribe guards, 
to nourish yourself when rations run out, or to barter for 
items on the equipment list—all of those uses have a 
mechanical impact on the game.

Equipment
Name Weight Price
Alcohol (1 serving) 0.2 lb. 0.5–50 mk
Alcohol (bottle) 2–4 lb. 1–300 mk
Anesthetic (5 doses) 1.5 lb. 75 mk
Antiseptic (potent, 5 doses) 1 lb. 50 mk
Antiseptic (weak, 5 doses) 1 lb. 25 mk
Backpack* 5 lb. 8 mk
Barrel* 70 lb. 15 mk
Blanket* 2 lb. 2 mk
Book (reference) 1–5 lb. 10–500 mk
Bottle (crem)* 3 lb. 0.5 mk
Bottle (glass)* 2 lb. 1 mk
Bucket* 2 lb. 1 mk
Candle 0.2 lb. 0.2 mk
Case (leather) 1 lb. 4 mk
Chain (thick, 10 feet) 10 lb. 20 mk
Chain (thin, 1 foot) 0.5 lb. 20 mk
Chest* 25 lb. 30 mk
Clothing (common) 3 lb. 2 mk
Clothing (fine) 6 lb. 50–200 mk
Clothing (ragged) 1.5 lb. 0.5 mk
Crowbar 3 lb. 10 mk
Ear trumpet 1 lb. 50 mk
Flask or tankard* 1 lb. 1 mk
Flint and steel 1.5 lb. 4 mk
Food (ration, 1 day) 0.5 lb. 0.2 mk
Food (street, 1 day) 1.5 lb. 3 mk
Food (fine, 1 day) 0.5 lb. 25 mk
Grappling hook 4 lb. 10 mk
Hammer (handheld)* 3 lb. 4 mk
Ink (1-ounce bottle)* 0.2 lb. 40 mk
Ink pen* 0.1 lb. 0.1 mk
Jug or pitcher* 4 lb. 2 mk
Ladder (10-foot)* 20 lb. 5 mk
Lantern (oil) 2 lb. 20 mk

Name Weight Price
Lantern (sphere) 2 lb. 20 mk
Lock and key 1 lb. 50 mk
Lockpick 0.5 lb. 5 mk
Magnifying lens 0.2 lb. 400 mk
Manacles 6 lb. 10 mk
Mirror (handheld)* 2 lb. 25 mk
Musical instrument 0.5–20 lb. 1–50 mk
Net (hunting) 5 lb. 4 mk
Net (fishing) 15 lb. 10 mk
Oil (1 flask) 1 lb. 1 mk
Paper or parchment (1 sheet)* 0.1 lb. 0.5 mk
Perfume (1 vial)* 0.5 lb. 20 mk
Pick (mining)* 10 lb. 10 mk
Poison (weak, 1 dose) 0.2 lb. 20 mk
Poison (effectual, 1 dose) 0.2 lb. 50 mk
Poison (potent, 1 dose) 0.2 lb. 120 mk
Pot (iron)* 10 lb. 8 mk
Pouch* 1 lb. 1 mk
Pulley system 12 lb. 100 mk
Rope (50 feet) 5 lb. 30 mk
Sack* 0.5 lb. 0.2 mk
Scale 3 lb. 20 mk
Shovel* 5 lb. 8 mk
Soap* 0.1 lb. 1 mk
Spyglass 1 lb. 500 mk
Surgical supplies 3 lb. 20 mk
Tent (two-person)* 20 lb. 10 mk
Treatment (medical, 1 dose) 0.2 lb. 10 mk
Tuning fork 0.5 lb. 50 mk
Unencased gem (infused) 0.01 lb. 2 mk
Vial (glass)* 0.2 lb. 4 mk
Waterskin* 1 lb. (empty) 1 mk
Wax (1 block)* 0.5 lb. 2 mk
Whetstone* 1 lb. 0.2 mk

Antiseptic (weak). A dose of weak antiseptic, such 
as that made from larmic mucus, can be applied to a 
character after a short rest to restore 1d6 health.
Book (reference). Each reference book contains 
information on a particular topic, such as a historical 
era, engineering, biology, architecture, or crafting 
a particular type of fabrial. When you have time to 
reference a book while making a related test using 
your Intellect attribute, you’re considered to have 
an expertise in the topic (see “Expertise Benefits” 
in chapter 3).
Candle. While lit, the candle sheds light in a 
15-foot radius. It burns for up to 6 hours before 
becoming unusable.
Case (leather). A sealable, cylindrical case that can 
store up to ten pages of paper or parchment and protect 
them from the weather.
Chain (thick). This sturdy chain can be used in 
securing cargo, shackling prisoners, and other situations 
where strength is essential. This chain can be broken 
by succeeding on a DC 30 Athletics test or by dealing 
15 damage to it.
Chain (thin). This thin chain is often used in 
jewelry and Soulcasters, usually made of precious metals 
in fine links. This chain can be broken by succeeding on 
a DC 20 Athletics test or by dealing 5 damage to it.
Clothing (common). Plain clothes are made of 
affordable materials and are generally undyed, helping 
you fit in among the commonfolk. While wearing these 
clothes, you gain an advantage on spiritual tests made 
to convince others you’re from the lower class.
Clothing (fine). Fine clothes are made of silks or 
other high-quality materials, colored using expensive 
dyes, and often stitched with fine embroidery. Wearing 
f
ine clothes helps you to blend into high society, such 
as noble banquets, without arousing suspicion. While 
wearing these clothes, you gain an advantage on 
spiritual tests made to convince others you’re from 
the upper class.
Clothing (ragged). This clothing may have once 
been of fine or common make, but it’s now barely 
holding together. While wearing these clothes, you gain 
an advantage on spiritual tests made to convince others 
you’re destitute.
Crowbar. You can use a crowbar to gain an 
advantage on Athletics tests where the crowbar’s 
leverage can be applied.
Ear Trumpet. Distant sounds heard through an 
ear trumpet can be perceived as though at half the 
distance. At the GM’s discretion, more powerful ear 
trumpets may be available at higher prices.

Flint and Steel. A flint and steel can be used as  to 
light abundant fuel within reach. Starting a fire under 
more challenging circumstances can take 1 minute or 
more. Herdazians often wear a tool called a sparkflicker 
as jewelry or other ornamentation; they can use this 
like flint and steel by quickly running their crystalline 
f
ingernails along it.
Food (ration). Rations are foods created for 
extended travel, such as jerky and hard-baked lavis 
cakes. They generally lack flavor, but if kept dry, 
they remain edible indefinitely.
Food (street). Every culture of Roshar has its own 
street confections, ranging from loaves of bread to more 
specific cultural foods like Herdazian chouta.

Food (fine). Fine food can be found in high-class 
restaurants and on the tables of nobles’ feasts.
Grappling Hook. A grappling hook is typically 
attached to the end of a rope to aid in scaling or 
descending from walls and cliffs. A securely anchored 
grappling hook grants an advantage on Acrobatics and 
Athletics tests made to climb using its attached rope.
You can use an Interact action to attach the grappling 
hook to an anchor within reach without making a test. 
Alternatively, you can throw and attach it to a suitable 
anchor within 20 feet of you by succeeding on an Agility 
or Athletics test (DC set by the GM).
Lantern (oil). While lit, this lantern sheds light in a 
30-foot radius. It burns for up to 6 hours per pint of oil.
Lantern (sphere). This lantern includes a locked 
cage, usually just under 1 foot in diameter, into which 
infused spheres can be placed to shed light. Depending 
on how full the lantern is, it sheds a different radius of 
light: 60 feet when entirely filled with spheres, 30 feet 
when half full, 15 feet when quarter-filled, and 5 feet 
when at least 1 mark or broam is within it. The lock can 
be opened with its included key or a successful DC 15 
Thievery test.
Lock and Key. This sturdy lock can be opened with 
its included key or a successful DC 20 Thievery test. 
At the GM’s discretion, locks that require higher DCs 
may be available at higher prices.
Lockpick. You can use a lockpick to gain an 
advantage on Thievery tests made to pick a lock. After 
this test is resolved, the GM can spend C to cause the 
lockpick to break.
Magnifying Lens. You can use a magnifying lens 
to gain an advantage on skill tests made to appraise or 
inspect a small or highly detailed item.
Manacles. These metal restraints, which come with 
a key, can bind the wrists or ankles of a Large or smaller 
character. They can be escaped with a successful DC 25 
Agility test, broken by succeeding on a DC 25 Athletics 
test or by dealing 15 damage to them, or lockpicked 
by succeeding on a DC 20 Thievery test. At the GM’s 
discretion, manacles that require higher DCs may be 
available at higher prices.
Musical Instrument. Every culture of Roshar 
has its preferred instruments and musical stylings. 
Instruments are often used for enjoyment, passing time, 
or busking for chips. When playing an instrument, 
you can determine the quality of your performance 
by making a skill test using a related skill (such as 
Agility for a stringed instrument, Athletics for drums, 
or Discipline for an instrument with many keys). If 
you have an expertise in that instrument, you gain 
an advantage on the test.

Net (hunting). This net of thick rope can ensnare 
animals or enemies. While holding this net, you can 
use  to make an Athletics test against the Physical 
defense of a Large or smaller character within 15 feet of 
you. On a hit, the character is Restrained and knocked 
Prone. That character or another within reach can 
use the Interact action to make a DC 15 Athletics test, 
freeing the trapped character on a success. If a character 
is Restrained by multiple nets, they must be freed from 
each separately.
Net (fishing). This net of fine mesh is used to 
ensnare fish. You can use this net to gain an advantage 
on physical tests related to fishing.
Oil. Oil generally comes in a 1-pint flask made of 
dried crem. Oil is flammable and can be used to fuel oil 
lanterns, to create dangerous terrain in a space, or as 
an improvised weapon (sling). When you hit or graze a 
target with this improvised weapon, you coat the target 
in oil in addition to the normal damage. Following the 
attack, regardless of the result, the crem flask breaks and 
any unused oil is lost.
Poison. Often manufactured using Roshar’s deadly 
blackbane plant, poison comes in single-dose glass vials. 
As , you can pour it into food, liquid, or a container, 
or you can apply the poison to a melee weapon or a 
piece of ammunition you’re holding. When you do, the 
GM may require you to make a Stealth test to avoid 
discovery. When a character ingests the poison or is hit 
by an attack using the poisoned weapon or ammunition, 
the poison is expended, and the character suffers the 
following effects:
Weak Poison. The target must succeed on a DC 12 
Athletics test or take 1d6 vital damage.
Effectual Poison. The target must succeed on a DC 14 
Athletics test or take 2d8 vital damage and be Stunned 
for 1 hour.
Potent Poison. The target must succeed on a DC 16 
Athletics test or take 3d10 vital damage and be 
Stunned for 1 hour. While Stunned in this way, 
the target is Immobilized.

Pulley System. Most commonly used by engineers 
and artifabrians, this system includes four pulley wheels, 
30 feet of rope, and a hook. When you have time to set 
up a pulley apparatus before lifting an object, you treat 
the object as being a quarter of its normal weight.
Rope. Rope is usually made of seasilk (or less com
monly, lavis grain or rockbud fibers) and sold in 50-foot 
lengths that can be cut and tied to change its length as 
needed. It can be cut by dealing 2 damage to it, or it can 
be ripped apart with a successful DC 20 Athletics test.
Scale. Most commonly used by scholars, ardents, 
appraisers, and gem cutters, a scale can accurately 
determine the weight of an object (to a maximum 
of 2 pounds).
Spyglass. Distant objects viewed through a spyglass 
can be perceived as though at half the distance. At the 
GM’s discretion, spyglasses that allow distant objects to 
appear even closer may be available at higher prices.
Surgical Supplies. This satchel contains enough 
bandages, salves, splints, and other medical supplies 
to be used 10 times. When you make a Medicine test 
to treat a wounded character (or to similarly use these 
medical supplies), you can expend one of these uses to 
gain an advantage on the test.
Treatment (medical). Rosharan surgeons treat 
ailments with a variety of treatments, generally made 
from bitterleaf or bloodivy. During a short rest, you can 
use a dose of such a treatment to cure a character of one 
of the following conditions, given that its source isn’t a 
permanent injury: Disoriented, Exhausted (reduces the 
penalty by 1), or Stunned.
Tuning Fork. A tuning fork can transfer Stormlight 
from one sphere or gemstone to another. While using 
a tuning fork, you can use spheres to recharge fabrials, 
Shardplate, and half-shards as if the spheres were 
unencased gemstones.
Unencased Gem (infused). Unlike spheres with 
gemstones encased in glass, unencased gems leak Storm
light quickly, going dun within several days depending 
on their cut. This permeability allows unencased gems 
to recharge fabrials and Shardplate. Radiants can also 
breathe in Stormlight from unencased gems as if they 
were spheres, gaining the same benefit.

Travel
Whether your adventuring party is a task force charged 
with missions by the Coalition of Monarchs, a band of 
mercenaries that sell your capabilities around Roshar, 
an expeditionary group seeking lost knowledge, or 
something else entirely, you’re likely to trek far and wide 
across Roshar. This section contains information about 
lodging, mounts, and vehicles that may be helpful when 
you’re far from home.
Lodging
While traveling, you may find yourself wanting a 
room, especially during a highstorm. From public 
stormshelters to the finest of accommodations, the 
Lodging table lists how much it generally costs to stay 
per night. You can usually purchase food at or near 
these lodgings, using the prices on the Equipment 
table in the previous section.
Lodging
Lodging Price per Person per Night
Stormshelter Free to the public (if there’s room)
Modest 2 mk
Comfortable 4 mk
Wealthy 8 mk
Aristocratic 20 mk

Mounts
Chulls are the most common mounts on Roshar, but a 
privileged few people use horses or Ryshadium instead. 
The Mounts table lists each mount’s travel speed and 
carrying capacity (representing the pace and weight 
the mount could comfortably maintain during a long 
expedition).
When attached to a cart, carriage, or other vehicle, 
a mount can move five times its carrying capacity 
(including the weight of the vehicle). If multiple mounts 
are pulling the same vehicle, combine their carrying 
capacities.

Mounts
Mount Travel Speed carry capacity Purchase Price
Chull 2mph 1,500lb. 200mk
Horse 4mph  500lb.  4,000mk
Ryshadium 6mph   1,000lb. Reward Only

Chull
Chulls are large, docile land crustaceans that resemble 
enormous hermit crabs with stone-like shells. A full
grown chull’s shell is over twice the height of most 
adults. Despite their slow speed, chulls have been 
domesticated since before memory. Their endurance, 
strength, and ability to withstand highstorms make 
them the most popular mount for extended journeys.
Horse
Horses are extremely uncommon on Roshar, and 
are generally owned by nobles and other high-class, 
prosperous individuals.
Ryshadium
Sometimes referred to as “the third Shard” alongside 
Shardblades and Plate, Ryshadium are an exceedingly 
rare breed of horse. They stand an average of two hands 
taller than horses of other breeds, have stone-like hooves 
that don’t require horseshoes, and can carry a warrior 
wearing Shardplate into battle—a feat which would 
injure or kill other horses.
In addition, Ryshadium seem to have a symbiotic 
bond with musicspren, and their eyes brim with 
intelligence and sapience. A Ryshadium chooses 
their rider, refusing others who attempt to ride them.
Vehicles
Vehicles enable travel over water or allow quicker or 
safer travel over land. Almost all vehicles on Roshar 
are designed to weather passing highstorms.
The Vehicles table lists common forms of trans
portation, including the type of vehicle, average travel 
speed, and cost to rent or purchase one. The rental rate 
grants you temporary use of the vehicle and provides you 
the animals or people needed to operate it. If you’d like 
to purchase a vehicle, you’ll need to staff it yourself.
Vehicles
Vehicle Type, Travel Speed, Rental Price per Day, Purchase Price
Chull Cart, land, 2mph, 5mk, 500mk,
Rowboat, water, 3mph downstream 1mph upstream, 3mk 250mk
Merchant Vessel, water, 5mph, 50mk, 10000mk
Warship, Water, 8mph, 250mk, 100000mk

Standard Fabrials
Name, Charges, Weight, Purchase Price
Alerter, 5, .5-10lb., 500mk
Attractor, 5, 8lb., 750mk
Clock Fabrial, 3, 2lb., 200mk
Drainer, 2, .5lb., 1000mk
Emotion Bracelet, 3, .2lb., 200mk
Freechair,,12lb. Free or 800mk
Heatrial, 5, 1-10lb., 50-500mk
Painrial(amplifying), 3, 1lb.,750mk
Repeller, 5, 8lb., 1500mk
Soulcaster, 5, 5lb., Reward Only
Spanreed(1pair), 3, 1lb. each, 1000mk
Suppressor, 2, 1lb., Reward Only

Fabrials
Fabrials fill many roles in Rosharan societies, whether 
in the form of modern conveniences like spanreeds, 
ancient relics like Soulcasters, or technological break
throughs like half-shards. In some regions, fabrials are 
quite common, while in other parts of the world, they 
are especially rare.
These marvelous Stormlight-powered devices 
perform a variety of functions. A simple fabrial might 
merely heat a home, while others are priceless artifacts 
that transform materials into other materials.
A fabrial is constructed by trapping a spren within 
a gemstone; the type of spren determines the fabrial’s 
basic function, then the gemstone is surrounded by 
complex metal latticeworks to fine-tune its effects. 
More complex fabrials contain multiple gems (and 
spren trapped within them).
Activating Fabrials
The gem or gems at the core of a fabrial are usually 
charged with Investiture in the form of Stormlight, 
which powers the fabrial’s effects. Each fabrial can 
hold a certain number of charges (see “Using Items” 
at the beginning of this chapter), determined when that 
fabrial is crafted. While the fabrial has at least 1 charge, 
it is Invested. Like spheres, the fabrial’s gems must be 
recharged after their Investiture is expended.
Unless otherwise specified, you can use the Interact 
action to activate a fabrial you’re touching. An activated 
fabrial expends 1 charge to produce that fabrial’s effect, 
which lasts for the duration specified. The fabrial 
continues to spend more charges until you touch it as 
 to deactivate it, or until it runs out of charges.
Unique Fabrials
Beyond the common fabrials in the following section, 
many cutting-edge fabrials push the limits of this 
technology. Such experimental devices produce effects 
that people never dreamed possible through technology. 
Some mimic the capabilities of Radiant surges, while 
others miniaturize larger fabrials. You can only acquire 
a unique fabrial by finding or being gifted one—or in 
the case of inventive characters, by crafting your own 
(see “Inventing Unique Fabrials” later in this chapter).
Standard Fabrials
The fabrials on the Standard Fabrials table are regularly 
produced or used throughout Roshar. Some are consid
ered commonplace and even mundane (though they’re 
often still expensive). These fabrials can be purchased 
and used much like the other items in this chapter.

Alerter (5 charges). While active, an alerter detects 
the presence of approaching people or objects, blinking 
if they’re within a certain radius. When an alerter is 
crafted, the creator sets its radius and can tune it to 
detect certain people, certain materials, the use of 
certain surges, and similar alerts. An alerter expends 
1 charge for each day it’s active.
Attractor (5 charges). Each attractor is attuned 
to a particular Essence or material, such as water, 
smoke, or another Essence. While activated, the fabrial 
weakly attracts the attuned material within a specific 
radius. Both the material it attracts and the radius are 
determined when the attractor is created. The attractor 
pulls its attuned material toward it at a rate of 1 foot 
per round, but this has no effect on anything worn or 
carried by a character. An attractor expends 1 charge 
for each hour it’s active.
Clock Fabrial (3 charges). Larger clock fabrials 
can announce the hour when mounted on a building, 
while smaller versions can be worn as jewelry to allow 
their wearer to know the exact time. Both types spend 
1 charge for every 5 days they’re active.
Drainer (2 charges). Drainer fabrials can 
partially drain Stormlight from infused gems to alter 
the strength of their glow; this is primarily done for 
aesthetic purposes. You can use an Interact action to 
touch this fabrial to an Invested or infused object or 
character. If the fabrial isn’t fully charged, the target 
loses 1 Investiture or charge, and this fabrial gains 
1 charge. If the target is an unwilling character (or an 
object being worn or held by one), you must succeed 
on an Agility test against that character’s Physical 
defense; on a failure, you don’t drain the target and
can’t try again for 1 minute. Once this fabrial is fully 
charged, it can be emptied by using a tuning fork, by 
a Radiant drawing in its Investiture (and regaining 
an equal amount of Investiture), or by allowing the 
Investiture to fade over the course of 5 days.
Emotion Bracelet (3 charges). Emotion bracelets 
blink or change color in the presence of different 
emotions. The bracelet’s wearer can spend 1 charge 
as  to gain an advantage on an Insight test against 
a character within 10 feet of them.
Freechair (unlimited charges). Freechairs are 
mobility devices that levitate and move by engaging 
fabrial components. While freechairs are available 
for purchase, disabled characters can obtain one for 
free and don’t have to track charges. The operator 
of a freechair has the same movement rate as other 
char acters (see “Speed” in chapter 3), and it doesn’t 
require an action to activate.
Heatrial (5 charges). Commonly known as warm
ers, heatrials generate heat. You can use an Interact 
action to activate the heatrial or to adjust the radius 
and intensity of the heat, allowing uses such as gently 
warming its surroundings or cooking food. If a character 
touches the gemstone while the heatrial is active, they 
take 1d6 energy damage.

The heatrial expends charges based on what 
temperature it is set to. For comfortable ambient 
heat, it expends 1 charge for each day it is active. For 
temperatures high enough for activities like cooking 
or blacksmithing, it expends 1 charge for each hour it 
is active.
Painrial (amplifying; 3 charges). The amplifying 
painrial increases a target’s sense of pain. It is a melee 
weapon that uses the Light Weaponry skill and deals 1d6 
vital damage. On a hit, you can spend 1 charge to add 
your skill modifier to the damage one additional time.
Painrial (numbing; 3 charges). The numbing 
painrial decreases the wearer’s sense of pain. Before you 
take damage while wearing the painrial, you can use  
and spend 1 charge to reduce the damage by 1d4.
Repeller (5 charges). Each repeller is attuned to a 
particular Essence or material—such as water, smoke, 
or another Essence. While activated, the fabrial weakly 
pushes away the attuned material within a specific 
radius. Both the material it repels and the radius are 
determined when the repeller is created. If the repeller 
is heavier, it pushes the attuned material away from 
it at a rate of 1 foot per round, until the material is 
outside the repeller’s radius. If the material is heavier, 
the repeller instead pushes itself away from the 
material. This fabrial can’t affect anything being worn 
or carried by a character. A repeller expends 1 charge for 
each hour it is active.
Soulcaster (5 charges). Soulcasters mimic the 
Radiant surge of Transformation, more commonly 
called Soulcasting. However, unlike Radiants, the vast 
majority of fabrial Soulcasters can only turn materials 
into one Essence. For example, a stone Soulcaster can 
turn water, wood, or even air into stone, but it can’t do 
the reverse.
When you touch the Soulcaster to an object you want 
to transform, then tap one of the three gemstones on the 
fabrial, you can activate the Transformation surge (see 
chapter 6) using the surge’s normal rules and activation 
time, with the following changes:
◆ You can spend charges from the Soulcaster in place 
of Investiture for the surge.
◆ You don’t need a free hand, but you must hold the 
Soulcaster in your hand.
◆ The Soulcaster can only transform material into the 
one Essence to which it is linked.
◆ If you have no ranks in Transformation, your 
maximum surge size is Small (2.5 feet).
◆ When making a Transformation test, you can use 
either your Transformation modifier (if you have that 
skill) or your Willpower attribute score (without any 
ranks in a skill).
If a non-Radiant character practices with a Soulcaster 
long enough, the GM might allow them to invest skill 
ranks into Transformation when they gain a level, but 
they still need the Soulcaster to use the surge.
Soulcasters contain three gemstones that they need 
to function. The vast amounts of Investiture used can 
cause them to crack. The GM can spend 
 from using
the Soulcaster to cause one gem to break. A broken 
gem must be replaced before the Soulcaster can be used 
again; doing so requires several hours of work from 
someone with the Fabrial Crafting specialist expertise.
Spanreed (3 charges). Spanreeds come in pairs, 
with each reed conjoined to the other, allowing for the 
bearers of each to communicate over long distances. 
Each spanreed is a writing utensil with an infused ruby 
at the top. When one bearer twists the ruby to activate 
it, their spanreed causes the paired spanreed’s ruby 
to blink, signaling that communication is requested. 
When the other spanreed bearer is ready, they twist 
their spanreed’s ruby, and the two reeds begin to move 
in parallel. By taking turns writing, the bearers can 
conduct written conversations. Both spanreeds must 
be stationary for them to work, preventing their use 
on boats, in carriages, and in similar situations. A pair 
of spanreeds expend 1 charge for every 5 days they 
are active.
Suppressor (2 charges). Suppressors are special
ized replications of a much grander construction at the 
heart of Urithiru, tower-city of the Knights Radiant. 
When activated, this fabrial suppresses the use of surges 
in a radius of 30 feet. The suppressor can be charged 
with different types of Light, each one affect ing different 
Surgebinders: When infused with Stormlight, it stops 
users of Voidlight, and when infused with Voidlight, 
it stops users of Stormlight. Affected characters in its 
radius can’t use surges or summon Radiant Shardblades 
or Shardplate. Radiants of the Fourth Ideal or 
higher can attempt to push through this suppression, 
making a DC 20 test at the start of each round using 
the appropriate surge skill (no action required); on a 
success, they can use one action from that surge during 
that round. A suppressor expends 1 charge for each 
hour it is active.

Crafting
Experienced craftspeople can craft non-Invested 
items for themselves, including weapons, armor, 
equipment, and even grander creations like buildings 
or works of art.
Crafting Prerequisites
You can only craft an item if you have an expertise 
relevant to the item you want to craft. For example, to 
craft a sidesword, you need either the Weapon Crafting 
expertise or the Sidesword expertise.
If you only have a broad expertise (like Weapon 
Crafting), you can craft relevant items with it, but the 
item’s user can’t benefit from the expert traits of those 
items in combat.
Crafting Mundane Items
If you have the necessary expertise, choose a non
Invested item with a price from the Weapons table, 
Armor table, or Equipment table. At the GM’s 
discretion, you can craft a different non-Invested 
item instead. Use the following steps to craft your 
chosen item:
1. Acquire the necessary materials.
2. Make a Crafting test.
3. Apply any upgrades or drawbacks.
Step 1: Acquire Materials
For non-Invested items, it’s assumed you can easily find 
the metal, leather, shalebark, or other raw materials to 
craft the item, provided you have access to a common 
trade network or other market.
Material Cost. The cost to acquire the raw 
materials equals half the normal value of the item 
you’re crafting.
Tools and Facilities. Additionally, you need access 
to the proper tools and facilities to craft the item. This 
is up to the GM’s discretion based on the specifics of 
the item you’re making. You might be able to fashion a 
quick lockpick with just your hands, but a sharp sword 
requires access to a forge and anvil. If your tools and 
facilities are poor, you might gain a disadvantage on 
your Crafting test in step 2.
Step 2: Make a Crafting Test
Once you have all needed materials, it’s time to actually 
craft the item during downtime (see “Downtime” in 
chapter 9).
Time Spent. When crafting, you can usually 
produce 100 marks worth of work in one workday. 
For example, a greatsword worth 200 marks requires 
2 workdays to complete, while a lockpick worth 5 marks 
requires only a fraction of a workday. However, this time 
can be modified by Opportunities or Complications 
during the crafting process: each Opportunity you roll 
during your Crafting test reduces the time to create the 
item by 25 percent, while each Complication increases 
it by 25 percent.
Crafting Test. When you’re ready to begin crafting, 
roll a Crafting test and raise the stakes. At the GM’s 
discretion, you might gain an advantage on this test if 
you have exceptional tools or facilities available, or you 
might gain a disadvantage if your tools or facilities are 
exceptionally poor.
Consult the Item Crafting Test table to determine 
how your test result affects your crafting. And if you roll 
an Opportunity or Complication, don’t forget to modify 
your crafting time as described in “Time Spent.”

Item Crafting Test
Test Result Item Quality
1–5 Utter Failure  . Despite all your time and effort, you fail 
to produce anything usable. You must start over from 
scratch. Nothing remains of your initial attempt or 
materials—it was all consumed in your experiment.
6–10 Shoddy Creation  .Creating this item proves 
unusually challenging. You create the item, but it has 
no upgrades and one drawback.
11–20 Typical Creation  . The crafting goes exactly as 
expected. You create the item with one upgrade and 
one drawback.
21–25 Quality Creation  . Things go swimmingly! You craft 
the item with two upgrades and one drawback.
26+ Exceptional Creation! You make a breakthrough 
while creating this item. You craft the item with three 
upgrades and no drawbacks.

Step 3: Apply Upgrades 
and Drawbacks
For each upgrade you earned as part of your Crafting 
test, choose an upgrade from the Item Upgrades and 
Drawbacks table. You’re free to suggest your own 
creative ideas if the GM approves. If you earned two 
or more upgrades, you can (if you wish) instead choose 
from the next section, “Advanced Item Features.”
For each drawback earned, roll a d6 on the same 
table to randomly determine a drawback. The GM 
may also decide to assign you a creative drawback 
in certain situations.

Item Upgrades and Drawbacks
d6, upgrade, drawback
1, 
You salvage enough materials from the scraps to make something else. The item you just crafted has no material cost.,
The process requires far more materials than expected. The item costs twice as much to create.,
2,
If made or sold publicly, the item’s superior craftsmanship earns you acclaim among discerning crafters and buyers.,
You accidentally damage your tools or facilities. Depending on whose facilities you’re using, this may cost you marks or hurt your reputation.,
3,
Your item is far lighter than normal. Halve its weight.,
Your item is far bulkier than normal. Double its weight.,
4,
The item is sturdy. It ignores Complication effects that might cause it to be damaged or break.,
The item is delicate. A Complication on any test using the item causes it to break.,
5,
The item is incredibly beautiful and impresses everyone who sees it.,
The item is an absolute eyesore.,
6,
Your item has gained you recognition among scholars or ardents; you attract the attention of a potential patron (see “Rewards” in chapter 9).,
Your item has made some scholars or ardents professionally jealous; this will impact you in the future.,

Advanced Item Features
Feature Name, Effect
Adorned, If the item is armor, it gains Presentable as an expert trait thanks to the artistic flourishes you add.,
Hidden Compartment, The item has a storage compartment that can contain another object up to one-quarter of the item’s volume.,
Lethal Design, If the item is a weapon, when a character makes an injury roll due to this weapon, subtract 3 from the result.,
Perfect Balance, If the item has the Cumbersome trait, reduce the value of that trait by 1. Additionally, if the item is a weapon, it gains Defensive as an expert trait.,
Unconventional Weapon, If the item is a weapon, it gains Discreet as an expert trait. If this item isn’t a weapon or armor, it can be used as an improvised weapon without the Fragile trait.,

Advanced Item Features
In exceptional circumstances, craftspeople can generate 
up to three upgrades during the crafting process. When 
this happens, you can choose to spend two upgrades 
to apply one feature of your choice from the Advanced 
Item Features table, instead of choosing from the Item 
Upgrades and Drawbacks results table.

Crafting Standard Fabrials
While the methods of creating certain fabrials have 
been lost to time (see the “Dead Spren” sidebar), 
most modern-day fabrials can be created by crafters 
with sufficient research and finesse. The process 
requires much more specialized knowledge and precise 
handiwork than crafting a mundane item, but otherwise 
follows similar steps.
Each fabrial requires a gemstone specifically cut for 
that purpose, surrounded by a delicate latticework of 
metal and other materials to tune the device’s function. 
But even more important is what’s housed within that 
gemstone. Part of the process of crafting a fabrial 
involves luring a spren of a specific type and trapping 
it within the gem. This spren provides the fabrial with 
its functionality, and it must be lured with something 
that appeals to its unique nature.
Fabrial Crafting Steps
You can craft any standard fabrial with a price listed 
on the Standard Fabrials table earlier in this chapter. 
Doing so follows the standard crafting rules in the 
previous “Crafting Mundane Items” section, but you 
must have an expertise in Fabrial Crafting or in the 
specific fabrial you’re creating.
Though standard fabrials require gems, these are 
easily acquired as part of the materials you purchase in 
step 1 of the crafting process. Similarly, the process for 
attracting a spren and crafting a standard fabrial is well 
documented, so you don’t need to make an additional 
test to trap the spren. (However, as described in the next 
section, crafting unique fabrials does require special 
materials and an additional test.)
Fabrial Upgrades
As with crafting other items, if your fabrial’s 
Crafting test yields two upgrades, you can use 
those to choose one advanced feature. When you 
do, you can either choose from the earlier “Advanced 
Item Features” section, or you can choose from the 
upcoming “Advanced Fabrial Features” subsection 
of “Inventing Unique Fabrials.”
combine existing effects in innovative ways, while 
others even replicate the effects of Surgebinders. An 
enterprising character can attempt to create such a 
device, but inventing these unique fabrials follows 
special rules beyond crafting basic items.
In general, unique fabrials are only available 
to characters selecting talents from the Scholar 
(Artifabrian) path, or to characters who earn special 
gemstones as rewards (see “Fabrials and High-Quality 
Gems” in chapter 8).
Use the following steps to craft your chosen fabrial:
1. Choose your desired effect.
2. Acquire the necessary materials.
3. Trap a spren.
4. Make a Crafting test.
5. Apply any upgrades or drawbacks.
Step 1: Choose Your Effect
To invent a unique fabrial, first you must decide what 
you want it to accomplish. You can choose a fabrial 
effect from those listed on the Unique Fabrial Effects 
table later in this section (provided your chosen effect 
is of an equal or lower tier than the gemstone you’ll use 
to craft it). Each effect lists the total number of charges 
that fabrial will have, along with its tier that affects the 
expense and difficulty of crafting the device.
Enterprising players may instead suggest new effects 
of their own creation, and adventurous GMs are 
encouraged to work with them to find something that 
feels balanced.
Any unique fabrials you craft follow the standard 
fabrial rules (see “Fabrials” earlier in this chapter).
Step 2: Acquire Materials
Much like crafting other items, it’s assumed you can 
acquire most of the raw materials you need for the fab
rial. The cost of these materials depends on the tier of 
effect you chose from the Unique Fabrial Effects table:
◆ Tier 1: 100 marks
◆ Tier 2: 200 marks
◆ Tier 3: 400 marks
◆ Tier 4: 800 marks
Inventing Unique Fabrials
Cutting-edge artifabrians often devote their efforts 
to experimenting with fabrials that are unheard of 
or that only exist in cloistered laboratories as proto
types. Some of these experimental technologies This material cost includes any rare metals, but it 
doesn’t include one key component: the gemstone.

Fabrial Gem
The gemstone required for these cutting-edge fabrials 
is far more specialized than the ones needed for a 
spanreed. This is no common gem from a mark or 
broam, but a large gem specially cut for this purpose. 
These gems are incredibly rare items that can’t simply 
be bought at a market. Instead, acquiring a gem capable 
of making a unique fabrial is a task worthy of one of 
your character’s goals (see chapter 8). Through your 
adventures, you may be able to acquire such a gem from 
a wealthy patron. You might even cut your own after 
pulling it from the heart of a chasmfiend, but you can’t 
obtain it from your local merchant.
Your gem can only be used to craft a fabrial of that 
gem’s tier or lower (as shown on the Unique Fabrial 
Effects table). Most gems earned as rewards are of the 
same tier as your current character, though this is at 
the GM’s discretion.
Each gem can be used to create a single unique 
fabrial. Once used, the gem can’t be repurposed.
Step 3: Trap a Spren
Before you can build the device around the gemstone, 
your fabrial requires one other delicate step: luring and 
trapping the spren. This can be a tricky process that 
requires multiple attempts. Each attempt at luring a 
spren requires 1 day of downtime activity (see “Down
time” in chapter 9).
To trap a spren, you need the gem that can trap it, 
specific knowledge of the spren you’re seeking, and 
knowledge of what attracts that spren and enraptures 
it long enough for you to capture it. When you have 
these things and are ready to trap a spren, make a Lore 
test, with a DC determined by the tier of the effect you 
chose from the Unique Fabrial Effects table:
◆ Tier 1: DC 15
◆ Tier 2: DC 20
◆ Tier 3: DC 25
◆ Tier 4: DC 30
If you succeed, you capture the spren and proceed to 
the next step. If you fail, you must reattempt capturing 
the spren on another day, continuing until you succeed 
or give up.


Fabrial Metals
When crafting fabrials, you don’t need to worry about 
the details of which metals you use and how you craft 
them. However, you might like to enhance the stories 
you tell about your fabrials and how they function (or 
malfunction). If so, it’s good to know that each metal 
has a different effect on spren and fabrial functionality, 
as follows:
◆ Aluminum can block the connection between spren, 
affecting how conjoined spren interact or how spren 
react to sentient thoughts.
◆ Brass can dim the intensity of a spren’s manifestation.
◆ Bronze can improve a spren’s ability to detect rhythms 
or receive thoughts.
◆ Copper can allow a fabrial to conduct energy or 
transmit thoughts.
◆ Iron can attract certain substances or adjust a 
fabrial’s polarity.
◆ Pewter can cause the fabrial to augment an attribute 
or energy source.
◆ Steel can repel certain substances or adjust a 
fabrial’s polarity.
◆ Tin can cause the fabrial to diminish an attribute or 
energy source.
◆ Zinc can increase the intensity of a spren’s 
manifestation.

Dead Spren
Some of the most powerful items throughout Roshar—
such as Soulcasters, Shardplate, and Shardblades—were 
created not by technology, but by the sacrifice of ancient 
spren. Though these items are presented alongside the 
other weapons or fabrials in their corresponding sections, 
they are far more exceptional, and their methods of 
crafting have been lost to time. Such legendary items can’t 
simply be purchased or crafted; instead, characters must 
earn them as rewards (see chapter 8).

Step 4: Make a Crafting Test
Once you capture the spren, you can make and resolve 
a crafting test. This takes one day of downtime per tier 
of fabrial you’re trying to create. However, this time can 
be modified by Opportunities or Complications during 
the crafting process: each Opportunity you roll during 
your Crafting test reduces the time to create the item 
by 25 percent, while each Complication increases it by 
25 percent.
Make a Crafting test and raise the stakes. Consult the 
Fabrial Crafting Test table to determine how your test 
result affects your crafting.
Step 5: Apply Upgrades  
and Drawbacks
For each upgrade you earned as part of your Crafting 
test, choose an upgrade listed next to your chosen fabrial 
effect (from the “Unique Fabrial Effects” section) or 
any qualifying upgrade from the Fabrial Upgrades and 
Drawbacks table. If you earned two upgrades, you can 
instead choose (if you wish) from the “Advanced Fabrial 
Features” section.
For each drawback you earned, you can choose the 
drawback listed next to your chosen fabrial, or you can 
roll a d8 on the Fabrial Upgrades and Drawbacks table 
to randomly determine a drawback (rerolling if the listed 
requirement doesn’t match your fabrial). The GM may 
also decide to assign you a creative drawback or 
come up with another creative idea for one of your 
Complications.

Fabrial Crafting Test
Test Result Item Quality
1–5,
Utter Failure . Despite all your time and effort, you 
fail to produce a working fabrial. You must start 
over from scratch. The fabrial’s core gemstone is 
still intact, but you lose any other materials and the 
spren you captured.,
6–10,
Shoddy Creation . Crafting this fabrial takes an 
additional day, and you find the process unusually 
challenging. You create the fabrial with one effect, 
no upgrades, and one drawback.,
11–20,
Typical Creation . The crafting goes exactly as 
expected. You create the fabrial with one effect, 
one upgrade, and one drawback.,
21–25,
Quality Creation . Things go swimmingly. You craft 
the fabrial with one effect, two upgrades, and one 
drawback.
26+,
Exceptional Creation! You make a breakthrough 
while creating this fabrial. You craft the fabrial with 
one effect, three upgrades, and no drawbacks.,

Fabrial Upgrades and Drawbacks			
D8	General Drawbacks	General Upgrades	Requirements
1	"Diminished . Attacks made with this fabrial 
gain a disadvantage."	"Amplified . Attacks made with this fabrial gain 
an advantage."	Can only be applied to fabrials that have an attack.
2	"Delicate . The GM can spend a complication
 to deactivate 
the fabrial until it is repaired with a success
ful DC 15 Crafting test."	"Reliable . When making tests with this fabrial, 
ignore the first complication
you roll with it each scene. 
When you do, you gain no bonus from it."	"Can only be applied to fabrials 
that require attack tests or other 
skill tests."
3	"Dangerous . The GM can spend a complication
to make 
the fabrial deal 1d6 energy damage to you 
and each character within 5 feet of you."	Fine tuned. You can spend an opportunity to recover 1d4 focus 	"Can only be applied to fabrials 
that require attack tests or other 
skill tests."
4	"Inefficient . When you roll a complication
while within 
5 feet of the activated fabrial, the GM can 
spend it to expend an additional charge."	When you roll an opportunity while within 5 feet of the activated fabrial you can spend it to make the fabrial regain a charge 	Can only be applied to fabrials that expend charges.
5	Lower Capacity . Decrease the fabrial’s maximum charges by 1.	Higher Capacity . Increase the fabrial’s maximum charges by 1.	"Can only be applied to fabrials 
that expend charges."
6	Short Ranged . The fabrial’s range is halved.	Long Ranged . The fabrial’s range is doubled.	Can only be applied to fabrials that have a range or a radius.
7	"Slower . Decrease the movement rate of the 
effect by 50 percent."	"Faster . Increase the movement rate of the effect 
by 50 percent."	"Can only be applied to fabrials 
that grant you a movement rate 
or cause you to move."
8	Lesser Damage . Decrease the damage dealt or healed by one die size (such as by reducing d20 to d12).	"Greater Damage . Increase the damage dealt 
or healed by one die size (such as by increasing 
d4 to d6)."	Can only be applied to fabrials that deal or heal damage.

Advanced Fabrial Features
In exceptional circumstances, artifabrians can generate 
two upgrades during the crafting process.
When this happens, you can choose to spend both 
upgrades to apply one feature of your choice from the 
Advanced Fabrial Features table.
Advanced Fabrial Features
Feature Name
Expanded Capacity, 
If the fabrial has charges, increase its maximum charges by 3.,

Wide Area,
If the fabrial has an attack or other effect that 
applies to one target, you can spend 2 focus 
to have it affect each enemy, each ally, or each 
character within 5 feet of your target instead. If you’re in range, you can choose to affect 
yourself along with your allies.,


Security Lock,
The fabrial can be used only by characters 
who know the security mechanism (such as a 
hidden button that must be pressed or a secret 
lever that must be flipped). You decide this 
mechanism when you create the fabrial.
Quick Activation,
Once per scene, the user of the fabrial can 
spend 1 focus to reduce the action cost to 
activate it by an action 
 (or if it is already an action it becomes a free action)
Timed Activation,
By using the Ready action with the fabrial, 
you can set an internal timing mechanism for 
an interval of your choice (such as 1 round, 
1 minute, or 1 hour). After this interval elapses, 
the fabrial activates (or deactivates if it was 
already active).,

Extra Effect 
(unique fabrials 
only),
Add an additional unique fabrial effect to the 
fabrial. You must expend an additional gemstone 
of the effect’s tier to add this effect to the fabrial. 
Both effects track their charges separately.,

Unique Fabrial Effects
This section presents the effects you can select for your 
unique fabrial. The Unique Fabrial Effects table lists 
them by tier, then the text that follows describes the 
effects in alphabetical order.

Unique Fabrial Effects
Tier, Type, Charges,
1, Bindrial(area), 3,
1, Bindrial(self), 5,
1, Compressor, 3,
1, Cremrial, 5,
1, Cultivator, 3,
2, Accelerator, 3,
2, Armor Augmentor, 2,
2, Ascender, 5,
2, Drainer, 5,
2, Liferaial, 3,
2, Lightrial, 3,
2, Painrial(Amplifaying/Numbing), 3,
2, Projectile, 5,
3, Disruptor, 4,
4, Surge Fabrial, 4,


Accelerator
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect

This fabrial reduces your body’s friction. As a free action, spend 
1 charge to move up to your movement rate in a 
straight line.
Charges. This fabrial has 3 charges.
Drawback. You must make a DC 15 Agility test each 
time you use this fabrial. On a failure, fall Prone at the 
end of your movement.
Upgrade. You don’t have to move in a straight line when 
using this fabrial.

Armor Augmenter
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial enhances the strength of one non-Invested 
piece of armor that it is permanently attached to when 
created. As an action
, spend 1 charge to increase the armor’s 
deflect value by 2 until the end of the scene.
Charges. This fabrial has 2 charges.
Drawback. The armor gains the Cumbersome [3] trait 
while this fabrial is active.
Upgrade. You can spend an additional charge to also 
increase your Physical defense by 1 until the end of 
the scene.

Ascender
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial pulls you through the air. As a free action, spend 1 
charge to activate it and gain a flying rate of 30 feet until 
the end of your next turn. If the fabrial still has charges 
after your flying rate ends, you can use a free action (without 
spending charges) to hover in place or lower yourself to 
the ground. If the fabrial drops to 0 charges while you’re 
aloft, you fall and take damage as usual.
Charges. This fabrial has 5 charges.
Drawback. To finish crafting this fabrial, you 
must spend an additional 1,000 marks to build a 
complex system of counterweights conjoined to the 
ascender. Once per day of use, those counterweights 
must be reset for the ascender to be used on the 
following day.
Upgrade. This fabrial can also affect others. As an action, make 
an Agility test against the Physical defense of a target 
within your reach. On a hit, spend 1 charge to push the 
target up to 30 feet away from you in a straight line.
Bindrial (Area)
Tier 1 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial causes everything nearby to stick to the 
ground. As an action, spend 1 charge to activate it, making all 
objects and characters (other than you) within 5 feet of 
it become Immobilized. Until deactivated, the fabrial 
expends 1 charge at the start of each of your turns.
Charges. This fabrial has 3 charges.
Drawback. You’re Immobilized by the fabrial as well.
Upgrade. The fabrial affects everything within 10 feet.

Bindrial (Self)
Tier 1 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial allows you to stick your feet or hands to 
surfaces, climbing nearly anything with ease. As a free action , 
spend 1 charge to activate it, granting yourself the ability 
to climb on any surface for 1 round. You aren't Slowed 
while climbing in this way, and you can stay in place 
after that round without spending an additional charge. 
If the fabrial ever drops to 0 charges, you fall from the 
surface and take damage from the fall as usual.
Charges. This fabrial has 5 charges.
Drawback. You are Slowed while climbing in this way.
Upgrade. As an action, make an Agility test against the Physical 
defense of a target within your reach.On a hit, spend 
1 charge to make the target Immobilized for 1 round.
Compressor
Tier 1 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial can cause flexible objects it touches to 
become rigid. As an action, make an Agility test against the 
Physical defense of a target within your reach. On a 
success, you can spend 1 or more charges to cause the 
target to become Slowed and to gain a disadvantage 
on all physical tests for that many rounds.
Charges. This fabrial has 3 charges.
Drawback. While Slowed in this way, the target’s 
Physical defense increases by 2.
Upgrade. The target becomes Immobilized instead 
of Slowed.

Cremrial
Tier 1 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial can cause stone to become as soft as crem. 
As an action
, spend 1 charge and choose a Medium (5-foot) area 
of stone within reach, turning it into soft clay. At the end 
of your turn, the area turns back to stone, and enemies 
in the area must successfully Avoid Danger or become 
Immobilized (DC 15 Athletics test to escape).
Charges. This fabrial has 5 charges.
Drawback. Until the end of your next turn, when 
you roll a Complication while within 5 feet of the 
area affected by this fabrial, the GM can spend it to 
make you also sink into the stone, and you become 
Immobilized until the end of your next turn.
Upgrade. This fabrial affects a Large (10-foot) area 
instead of Medium.
Cultivator
Tier 1 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial can cause plants to grow rapidly. As an action, 
spend 1 charge to cause any plants it is touching to grow 
up to Medium (5-foot) size. These plants can be used 
to block line of effect, create barriers or cover, or create 
something to climb.
Charges. This fabrial has 3 charges.
Drawback. When you roll A complication
while within 5 feet of a 
plant affected by this fabrial, the GM can spend it 
to cause the plant to grow around you. You become 
Restrained until the plant is broken with a successful 
DC 12 Athletics test.
Upgrade. You can grow the plants up to Large 
(10-foot) size.
Disruptor
Tier 3 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial disintegrates objects with a touch. As an action
, 
spend 1 charge to touch this fabrial to a Small (2.5-foot) 
object. If that object is unattended, you destroy it. If it’s 
being held or carried by a character, you must make an 
Agility test against that character’s Physical defense, 
destroying the object on a success. You can’t use this 
fabrial on Invested or infused objects.
Charges. This fabrial has 4 charges.
Drawback. You can only target unattended objects.
Upgrade. You can also use this fabrial against characters. 
As an action
, spend 2 charges to make a Discipline attack 
against the Spiritual defense of a target in reach. 
Roll 2d6 spirit damage.

Drainer
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial drains the Stormlight from spheres, other 
fabrials, and even Radiants. As an action
, touch this fabrial 
to an Invested or infused object or character. If the 
fabrial isn’t fully charged, the target loses 1 Investiture 
or charge, and this fabrial gains 1 charge. Once fully 
charged, this fabrial can be emptied with a tuning fork, 
by a Radiant regaining 1 Investiture per charge, or by 
allowing the Investiture to fade over 5 days.
Charges. This fabrial has 5 charges.
Drawback. While carrying this fabrial, when you roll a 
Complication on any test involving another Invested 
object or character, the GM can spend a complication
 to drain 
1 Investiture from that object or character.
Upgrade. This fabrial drains 2 Investiture instead of 1.
Liferial
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial heals wounds. As an action
, spend 1 charge to 
heal yourself or a target within your reach. The target 
recovers 1d6 health.
Charges. This fabrial has 3 charges.
Drawback. Using this fabrial takes 2 actions
 instead of 1 action
.
Upgrade. You can spend 1 charge to remove an injury 
from the target (either in addition to or instead of 
spending 1 charge to heal).
Lightrial
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial produces a dazzling burst of light or sound. 
As an action
, make a Deception test against the Cognitive 
defense of a target within 30 feet of you. On a success, 
you can spend 1 charge to cause the target to lose 
3 focus. On a failure, you can spend 1 charge to cause 
them to lose 1 focus. If this fabrial reduces the target 
to 0 focus, they become Disoriented until the end of 
your next turn.
Charges. This fabrial has 3 charges.
Drawback. The GM can spend a complication
 from using this 
fabrial to make you Disoriented until the end of your 
next turn.
Upgrade. You can spend an opportunity  
 from using this fabrial to 
also deal 1d6 vital damage to the target.

Painrial (Amplifying/Numbing)
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect
This fabrial stores up pain then unleashes it on a target. 
It is a melee weapon that uses the Light Weaponry skill 
and deals 1d6 vital damage. On a hit, you can spend 
1 charge to add your skill modifier to the damage one 
additional time.
Charges. This fabrial has 3 charges.
Drawback. The GM can spend a complication
 from this attack 
to cause this fabrial to lose 1 charge and deal you 
1d6 vital damage.
Upgrade. Before you take damage from an enemy, if this 
fabrial isn’t fully charged, you can use a reaction  to reduce that 
damage by 1d6 and regain 1 charge.
Projectile
Tier 2 Unique Fabrial Effect
This experimental device uses a novel combination of 
fabrial elements to launch a projectile at incredibly high 
speed. Spend 1 charge to use it as a ranged [30/120] 
weapon that uses the Light Weaponry skill, has the 
Offhand trait, and deals 1d10 impact damage.
Charges. This fabrial has 5 charges.
Drawback. This fabrial has the Loaded [1] trait.
Upgrade. You can spend an additional charge to attack 
two targets instead of one.

Surge Fabrial
Tier 4 Unique Fabrial Effect
You’ve discovered how to create a fabrial that can mimic 
Radiant surgebinding. When you craft this fabrial, 
choose one Radiant surge. You can use this fabrial to 
activate that surge, using the surge’s normal rules and 
activation time, with the following changes:
◆ You can spend charges from this fabrial in place of 
Investiture for the surge.
◆ If you have no ranks in the corresponding surge skill, 
consider yourself to have 1 rank for the purpose of 
determining effects.
◆ When making a test, you can use the corresponding 
surge skill (if you have that skill) or your Willpower 
attribute score (without any ranks in a skill).
If your non-Radiant character practices with this fabrial 
long enough, the GM might allow you to invest skill 
ranks into the corresponding skill when you gain a level, 
but you can’t use that skill without this fabrial.
Charges. This fabrial has 4 charges.
Drawback. Only you can use this fabrial.
Upgrade. If you practice with this fabrial, you can 
choose talents from the corresponding surge’s talent 
tree when you gain a level. You can’t use those talents 
without this fabrial, but can replace them using 
the Self-Reflection downtime activity described 
in chapter 9.
